[Feature guide] Setup Android MDM (#27688)
fleetdm/fleet: articles/android-mdm-setup.md

# Android MDM setup

> 

Reviewer: I think we add the experimental feature call out. Also, we need a step to turn on the feature flag right?

Reviewer: Whoops! @marko-lisica forgot to tag you.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

> **NOTE:** Android MDM features are currently experimental and disabled by default. To enable, set `ANDROID_FEATURE_ENABLED=1` in [server configuration](https://fleetdm.com/docs/configuration/fleet-server-configuration).
```

To turn on Android MDM features, follow the instructions on this page to connect Android Enterprise
to Fleet.

Fleet supports Android devices that are [Play Protect certified](https://support.google.com/googleplay/answer/7165974?hl=en) (previously known as GMS).

## Turn Android MDM

To turn on Android MDM, connect Android Enterprise on **Settings > Integrations > Mobile device management (MDM)** page.

> When you select **Connect Android Enterprise**, Fleet will open the Google sign-up page. The registration process varies depending on whether your organization uses Google Workspace, Microsoft 365, or another provider. Organizations using Google Workspace and Microsoft don't need to verify domain ownership.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you select **Connect Android Enterprise**, Fleet will open the Google sign-up page. The registration process varies depending on whether your organization uses [Google Workspace](#google-workspace), [Microsoft 365](#microsoft-365), or [another provider](#other). Organizations using Google Workspace and Microsoft don't need to verify domain ownership.
```

Reviewer: What do we mean by "your organization uses" here? For their IdP?

If it's IdP maybe we want to say "...whether your organization uses Google Workspace, Microsoft Entra, or another identity provider (Idp)" instead of "365"? 

I think saying "Entra" is more common in the enterprise.

Author: It's not really an IdP. Users might have Google Workspace for email, storage, and documents but still use Okta or authentik as IdP (as we do). Additionally, some users may have Microsoft 365 but still use Okta as their IdP.

[Here's some](https://bayton.org/android/android-enterprise-faq/#to-use-android-enterprise-do-i-need-to-buy-google-workspace-g-suite-and-register-my-domain) more information. Seems like if you sign in with Microsoft account, it automatically add users from Microsoft to new Google Workspace so end users can enroll with their work account (still need to test this).

> ### Organizations using Google Workspace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Google Workspace
```

Do you think we simplify this header name? Clear enough?

> When you select **Connect Android Enterprise**, Fleet will open the Google signup page. The registration process varies depending on whether your organization uses [Google Workspace](#google-workspace), [Microsoft 365](#microsoft-365), or [another provider](#other). Organizations using Google Workspace and Microsoft don't need to verify domain ownership.

Author: ```suggestion
When you select **Connect Android Enterprise**, Fleet will open the Google signup page. The signup process varies depending on whether your organization uses [Google Workspace](#google-workspace), [Microsoft 365](#microsoft-365), or [another provider](#other). Organizations using Google Workspace and Microsoft don't need to verify domain ownership.
```

> When you select **Connect Android Enterprise**, Fleet will open the Google sign-up page. The registration process varies depending on whether your organization uses [Google Workspace](#google-workspace), [Microsoft 365](#microsoft-365), or [another provider](#other). Organizations using Google Workspace and Microsoft don't need to verify domain ownership.

Author: ```suggestion
When you select **Connect Android Enterprise**, Fleet will open the Google signup page. The registration process varies depending on whether your organization uses [Google Workspace](#google-workspace), [Microsoft 365](#microsoft-365), or [another provider](#other). Organizations using Google Workspace and Microsoft don't need to verify domain ownership.
```

> 1. If your organization already uses Google Workspace, use the admin account (or if you don't have one ask your Google Workspace admin to create one for you) to register Android Enterprise.

Author: ```suggestion
1. If your organization already uses Google Workspace, use the admin account (or if you don't have one ask your Google Workspace admin to create one for you) to signup for Android Enterprise.
```

> 2. Follow the steps in Google's signup flow to finish the signup.

Author: ```suggestion
2. Follow the steps in Google's signup flow.
```

> 2. Follow the steps in Google's signup flow to finish the registration.

Author: ```suggestion
2. Follow the steps in Google's signup flow to finish the signup.
```

> 2. Follow the steps in Google's sign-up flow to finish the registration.

Author: ```suggestion
2. Follow the steps in Google's signup flow to finish the registration.
```

> 3. After successful registration Android Enterprise subscription (free) is added to your Google Workspace, and you can see in Fleet that Android MDM is turned on.

Author: ```suggestion
3. After successful signup, Android Enterprise subscription (free) is added to your Google Workspace, and you can see in Fleet that Android MDM is turned on.
```

4. Go to [Google Admin console](https://admin.google.com)
5. From the side menu, select **Devices > Mobile & endpoints > Settings > Third-party integrations**.
6. Select **Android EMM**, check **Enable third-party Android mobile management**, then select **Manage EMM providers**.
7. Toggle **Authenticate Using Google** switch for your Android Enterprise, select the cross icon in the top left corner, and select **Save**.

> ## Organizations using Microsoft 365

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Microsoft 365
```

> 1. If your organization uses Microsoft 365, you can use your email to register Android Enterprise. When you click **Connect Android Enterprise**, you'll see option to **Sign in with Microsoft**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If your organization uses Microsoft 365, you can use your email to register Android Enterprise. When you select **Connect Android Enterprise**, you'll see option to **Sign in with Microsoft**.
```

Select instead of click for consistency.

> 1. If your organization uses Microsoft 365, you can use your email to register Android Enterprise. When you select **Connect Android Enterprise**, you'll see option to **Sign in with Microsoft**.

Author: ```suggestion
1. If your organization uses Microsoft 365, you can use your email to signup for Android Enterprise. When you select **Connect Android Enterprise**, you'll see option to **Sign in with Microsoft**.
```

> 2. Follow the steps in Google's signup flow to finish the signup.

Author: ```suggestion
2. Follow the steps in Google's signup flow.
```

> 2. Follow the steps in Google's signup flow to finish the registration.

Author: ```suggestion
2. Follow the steps in Google's signup flow to finish the signup.
```

> 2. Follow the steps in Google's sign-up flow to finish the registration.

Author: ```suggestion
2. Follow the steps in Google's signup flow to finish the registration.
```

> 3. After successful registration Android Enterprise subscription (free) is added to your Google Workspace, and you can see in Fleet that Android MDM is turned on.

Author: ```suggestion
3. After successful signup, Android Enterprise subscription (free) is added to your Google Workspace, and you can see in Fleet that Android MDM is turned on.
```

> ### Organizations that don't use Google Workspace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Other
```

> 1. In the Google sign-up page, use a work email to register Android Enterprise (don't use personal emails like "@gmail.com").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If your organization doesn't use Google Workspace or Microsoft 365, in the Google sign-up page, use a work email to register Android Enterprise (don't use personal emails like "@gmail.com").
```

> 1. If your organization doesn't use Google Workspace or Microsoft 365, in the Google sign-up page, use a work email to register Android Enterprise (don't use personal emails like "@gmail.com").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If your organization doesn't use Google Workspace or Microsoft 365, in the Google sign-up page, use a work email to register for Android Enterprise (don't use personal emails like "@gmail.com").
```

> 1. If your organization doesn't use Google Workspace or Microsoft 365, in the Google sign-up page, use a work email to register Android Enterprise (don't use personal emails like "@gmail.com").

Author: ```suggestion
1. If your organization doesn't use Google Workspace or Microsoft 365, in the Google signup page, use a work email to signup for Android Enterprise (don't use personal emails like "@gmail.com").
```

Author: @noahtalerman I changed "registration" with "signup" as that's how Google refer to it in their docs (developer and public facing docs). Example: https://blog.google/products/android-enterprise/android-enterprise-signup-google-services/

Author: FYI, I changed "registration" to "sign-up" everywhere, not just in this step.

2. After you enter your email, you'll get a verification email. Open the link from the email.
3. Enter information about you and your company and select **Continue**.
4. Android Enterprise subscription will be selected (free), select **Next**.
5. Enter a password for your account and select **Agree and continue**.
6. Select **Allow and create account** on the next screen.
8. You'll be asked to log in with your account that you just created, and to confirm your phone number.
9. After successful login and phone verification, you'll be redirected to Fleet, and you should see that Android MDM is turned on.
10. Follow [these steps](https://support.google.com/a/answer/60216?hl=en) to verify your domain name and prevent others from signing up with your domain.

> This way, you created Managed Google Domain, with Android Enterprise subscription only. You can use this domain later to add additional subscriptions (i.e. Google Workspace) if you need.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you have managed Google domain with Android Enterprise subscription only. You can use this domain later to add additional subscriptions (i.e. Google Workspace) if you need.
```

Looks like lowercase "managed Google domain": https://support.google.com/work/android/answer/9415508?hl=en

## Turn off Android MDM

> 1. Head to **Settings > Integrations > MDM**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In Fleet, head to **Settings > Integrations > MDM**.
```

2. In the **Mobile Device Management (MDM)** section, select **Edit** next to "Android MDM turned on."
3. Select **Turn off Android MDM**

> When you turn off Android MDM, your Android Enterprise will be deleted, and MDM will be turned off

Reviewer: Are work profiles and all associated company data deleted too?

Author: @noahtalerman Work profile is removed, and I think data is preserved if you're using work account (when Authenticate with Google is enabled in Google Admin console, but need to test that as well).

Author: Actually, Android Enterprise is deleted when Android MDM is turned off, so I think data must be deleted as well. Anyway, I'll test this.

Reviewer: > Android Enterprise is deleted when Android MDM is turned off, so I think data must be deleted as well

@marko-lisica I think let's be explicit about the data loss if this is the case.

# Android MDM setup

> **NOTE:** Android MDM features are currently experimental and disabled by default. To enable, set `ANDROID_FEATURE_ENABLED=1` in [server configuration](https://fleetdm.com/docs/configuration/fleet-server-configuration).

> To turn on Android MDM features, follow the instructions on this page to connect Android Enterprise

Author: ```suggestion

To turn on Android MDM features, follow the instructions on this page to connect Android Enterprise
```

# Android MDM setup

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

4. Android Enterprise subscription will be selected (free), select **Next**.
5. Enter a password for your account and select **Agree and continue**.
6. Select **Allow and create account** on the next screen.
8. You'll be asked to log in with your account that you just created, and to confirm your phone number.
9. After successful login and phone verification, you'll be redirected to Fleet, and you should see that Android MDM is turned on.
10. Follow [these steps](https://support.google.com/a/answer/60216?hl=en) to verify your domain name and prevent others from signing up with your domain.

Now you have managed Google domain with an Android Enterprise subscription. Optionally, if you want to add additional subscriptions later (i.e. Google Workspace) you can use this domain. Only the Android Enterprise subscription is required for Android MDM features.

## Turn off Android MDM

1. In Fleet, head to **Settings > Integrations > MDM**.
2. In the **Mobile Device Management (MDM)** section, select **Edit** next to "Android MDM turned on."
3. Select **Turn off Android MDM**

When you turn off Android MDM, your Android Enterprise will be deleted, and MDM will be turned off

> on all hosts.

Author: ```suggestion
on all hosts. The work profile from all BYOD hosts is deleted.
```

# Android MDM setup

> > **NOTE:** Android MDM features are currently experimental and disabled by default. To enable, set `ANDROID_FEATURE_ENABLED=1` in [server configuration](https://fleetdm.com/docs/configuration/fleet-server-configuration).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Experimental feature. This feature is undergoing rapid improvement, which may result in breaking changes to the API or configuration surface. It is not recommended for use in automated workflows.

Android MDM features are currently behind a feature flag. To enable them, set `ANDROID_FEATURE_ENABLED=1` in your [server configuration](https://fleetdm.com/docs/configuration/fleet-server-configuration).

```

Reviewer: I think let's stick with our default experimental callout: https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/product-groups#experimental-features

# Android MDM setup

> Experimental feature. This feature is undergoing rapid improvement, which may result in breaking changes to the API or configuration surface. It is not recommended for use in automated workflows.

Android MDM features are currently behind a feature flag. To enable them, set `ANDROID_FEATURE_ENABLED=1` in your [server configuration](https://fleetdm.com/docs/configuration/fleet-server-configuration).

> To turn on Android MDM features, follow the instructions on this page to connect Android Enterprise

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide provides instructions to turn on Android MDM features by connecting Fleet to Android Enterprise.
```

to Fleet.

Fleet supports Android devices that are [Play Protect certified](https://support.google.com/googleplay/answer/7165974?hl=en) (previously known as GMS).

> ## Turn Android MDM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Turn on
```

Maybe just "Turn on"? We're already in the "Android MDM" guide.

To turn on Android MDM, connect Android Enterprise on **Settings > Integrations > Mobile device management (MDM)** page.

When you select **Connect Android Enterprise**, Fleet will open the Google signup page. The signup process varies depending on whether your organization uses [Google Workspace](#google-workspace), [Microsoft 365](#microsoft-365), or [another provider](#other). Organizations using Google Workspace and Microsoft don't need to verify domain ownership.

### Google Workspace

1. If your organization already uses Google Workspace, use your admin account to signup for Android Enterprise. If you don't know your admin account credentials, ask your Google Workspace admin.
2. Follow the steps in Google's signup flow.
3. After successful signup, a free Android Enterprise subscription is added to your Google Workspace. In Fleet, you can confirm Android MDM is turned on in **Settings > Integrations > MDM**.
4. Head to your [Google Admin console](https://admin.google.com).

> 5. From the side menu, select **Devices > Mobile & endpoints > Settings > Third-party integrations**.

Author: ```suggestion
5. From the side menu, select [Devices > Mobile & endpoints > Settings > Third-party integrations](https://admin.google.com/ac/devices/settings/thirdparty).
```

> 1. If your organization already uses Google Workspace, use the admin account (or if you don't have one ask your Google Workspace admin to create one for you) to signup for Android Enterprise.
> 2. Follow the steps in Google's signup flow.
> 3. After successful signup, Android Enterprise subscription (free) is added to your Google Workspace, and you can see in Fleet that Android MDM is turned on.
> 4. Go to [Google Admin console](https://admin.google.com)
> 5. From the side menu, select **Devices > Mobile & endpoints > Settings > Third-party integrations**.
> 6. Select **Android EMM**, check **Enable third-party Android mobile management**, then select **Manage EMM providers**.
> 7. Toggle **Authenticate Using Google** switch for your Android Enterprise, select the cross icon in the top left corner, and select **Save**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If your organization already uses Google Workspace, use your admin account to signup for Android Enterprise. If you don't know your admin account credentials, ask your Google Workspace admin.
2. Follow the steps in Google's signup flow.
3. After successful signup, a free Android Enterprise subscription is added to your Google Workspace. In Fleet, you can confirm Android MDM is turned on in **Settings > Integrations > MDM**.
4. Head to your [Google Admin console](https://admin.google.com).
5. From the side menu, select **Devices > Mobile & endpoints > Settings > Third-party integrations**.
6. Select **Android EMM**, check **Enable third-party Android mobile management**, and then select **Manage EMM providers**.
7. Toggle **Authenticate Using Google** switch for your Android Enterprise, select the cross icon in the top left corner, and select **Save**.
```

### Microsoft 365

1. If your organization uses Microsoft 365, you can use your Microsoft email to signup for Android Enterprise. After you select **Connect Android Enterprise**, select **Sign in with Microsoft**. Your Microsoft account must have access to an email.
2. Follow the steps in Google's signup flow.
3. After successful signup, a free Android Enterprise subscription is added to your Google Workspace. In Fleet, you can confirm Android MDM is turned on in **Settings > Integrations > MDM**.
4. Go to your [Google Admin console](https://admin.google.com).
5. Follow [these steps](https://support.google.com/a/answer/60216?hl=en) to verify your domain name and prevent others from signing up with your domain.

Now you have managed Google domain with an Android Enterprise subscription. Optionally, if you want to add additional subscriptions later (i.e. Google Workspace) you can use this domain. Only the free Android Enterprise subscription is required for Android MDM features.

#### Add users from Microsoft to Google Workspace

> To require your end users to enroll to Fleet using their Microsoft accounts, follow steps below::

Author: ```suggestion
To require your end users to enroll to Fleet using their Microsoft accounts, follow steps below:
```

> 1. In Google Workspace, from the side menu, select **Devices > Mobile & endpoints > Settings > Third-party integrations**.

Author: ```suggestion
1. In Google Workspace, from the side menu, select [Devices > Mobile & endpoints > Settings > Third-party integrations](https://admin.google.com/ac/devices/settings/thirdparty).
```

> 2. Select **Android EMM**, check **Enable third-party Android mobile management**, then select **Manage EMM providers**.
> 3. Toggle **Authenticate Using Google** switch for your Android Enterprise, select the cross icon in the top left corner, and select **Save**.
> 4. From the side menu, select **Directory > Directory Sync**, and select **Add Azure Active Directory** to sync users from your Microsoft 365 to Google Workspace, so your end user can login with Microsoft 365 to add work profile.
> 5. Select **Continue**, add name and description, then select **Authorize and save**.
> 6. In popup window, login with Microsoft 365 admin account, select **Consent on behalf of your organisation**, and select **Accept**.
> 7. When you see **Connection successful** page, select **Continue**, and on the directory sync details page, select **Set up user sync**.
> 8. Enter names of the groups that you want to sync from Microsoft 365, then select **Verify**, and after that, select **Continue**.
> 9. Now choose organizational unit to add users to by selecting **Select organizational unit** button, then select **Continue**
> 10. You can keep default user attribute mapping and select **Continue**, select **Don't send activation email** and select **Continue**.
> 11. Keep **Suspend user in Google Directory** checked and select **Continue**
> 12. You can keep default safeguards and select **Simulate sync**, then after successfull simulation, select **Close**. This can [take up to the hour](https://support.google.com/a/answer/10344342) to complete, depending on the size of your data.
> 13. In the dialog, select **Activate and start sync**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select **Android EMM**, check **Enable third-party Android mobile management**, and then select **Manage EMM providers**.
3. Toggle the **Authenticate Using Google** switch for your Android Enterprise, select the cross icon in the top left corner, and select **Save**.
4. From the side menu, select **Directory > Directory Sync** and select **Add Azure Active Directory** to sync users from your Microsoft 365 to Google Workspace. Now, your end users can enroll with their Microsoft account.
5. Select **Continue**, add name and description, and then select **Authorize and save**.
6. In popup window, login with your Microsoft account, select **Consent on behalf of your organization**, and select **Accept**.
7. When you see the **Connection successful** page, select **Continue**. On the directory sync details page, select **Set up user sync**.
8. Enter the names of the groups that you want to sync from Microsoft 365, select **Verify**, and select **Continue**.
9. Now choose organizational unit to add users to by selecting **Select organizational unit** button and then **Continue**.
10. You can keep default user attribute mapping. Select **Continue**, **Don't send activation email**, and **Continue**.
11. Keep **Suspend user in Google Directory** checked and select **Continue**
12. Keep default safeguards. Select **Simulate sync** and, after successful simulation, select **Close**. The sync can [take up to the hour](https://support.google.com/a/answer/10344342) to complete.
13. In the dialog, select **Activate and start sync**.
```

Used "Microsoft account" to be consistent with other parts of the section. Cleaned up some other language. Let me know what you think.

### Other

> 1. If your organization doesn't use Google Workspace or Microsoft 365, in the Google signup page, use a work email to signup for Android Enterprise (don't use personal emails like "@gmail.com").
> 2. After you enter your email, you'll get a verification email. Open the link from the email.
> 3. Enter information about you and your company and select **Continue**.
> 4. Android Enterprise subscription will be selected (free), select **Next**.
> 5. Enter a password for your account and select **Agree and continue**.
> 6. Select **Allow and create account** on the next screen.
> 8. You'll be asked to log in with your account that you just created, and to confirm your phone number.
> 9. After successful login and phone verification, you'll be redirected to Fleet, and you should see that Android MDM is turned on.
> 10. Follow [these steps](https://support.google.com/a/answer/60216?hl=en) to verify your domain name and prevent others from signing up with your domain.
> 
> Now you have managed Google domain with an Android Enterprise subscription. Optionally, if you want to add additional subscriptions later (i.e. Google Workspace) you can use this domain. Only the Android Enterprise subscription is required for Android MDM features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If your organization doesn't use Google Workspace or Microsoft 365, in the Google signup page, use a work email to signup for Android Enterprise (don't use personal emails like "@gmail.com").
2. After you enter your email, you'll get a verification email. Open the link from the email.
3. Enter information about you and your company and select **Continue**.
4. You'll see your free Android Enterprise subscription will be selected. Select **Next**.
5. Enter a password for your account and select **Agree and continue**.
6. Select **Allow and create account** on the next screen.
8. You'll be asked to log in with your account that you just created and confirm your phone number.
9. After successful login and phone verification, you'll be redirected to Fleet. In Fleet, you can confirm Android MDM is turned on in **Settings > Integrations > MDM**.
10. Follow [these steps](https://support.google.com/a/answer/60216?hl=en) to verify your domain name. This way, only you can use your domain to sign up.

Now you have managed Google domain with an Android Enterprise subscription. Optionally, if you want to add additional subscriptions later (i.e. Google Workspace) you can use this domain. Only the free Android Enterprise subscription is required for Android MDM features.
```

> ## Turn off Android MDM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Turn off
```

Maybe just "Turn off"? We're already in the "Android MDM" guide.

# Android MDM setup

> Experimental feature. This feature is undergoing rapid improvement, which may result in breaking changes to the API or configuration surface. It is not recommended for use in automated workflows.

Android MDM features are currently behind a feature flag. To enable them, set `ANDROID_FEATURE_ENABLED=1` in your [server configuration](https://fleetdm.com/docs/configuration/fleet-server-configuration).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
